Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042736794-how-to-set-an-asset-to-live-or-expire-at-specific-time

# How to set an asset to Live or Expire at specific time

There are situations where your organization may need to set an asset to be
shown on your screen at a specific date and time or for a period of time. Live
and Expire feature is built for that purpose. Once you set the Live and Expire
up on an asset, you can put it in any of your schedule, playlist or directly
assigned to your screen or a zone in a splitscreen, the asset will only be
shown during the period of time defined as live. When it is out of the defined
live period, the asset will be skipped during content playback. You can also
set it to repeat as well.

  
What does that mean for you?

A common use of Live/Expire feature is for holiday promotion like below. Or if
you have contents prepared in advance for birthday or anniversary celebration
and only want it to show on that day.

_Retail Example: Your retail establishment has a standard schedule of
marketing assets all week but on special holidays (e.g. Black Friday), there
is a time sensitive promotion that needs to be shown in the week of Black
Friday only, it begins to show when the week starts and no longer show after
the week ends. You can also set your promotion daily, weekly, monthly or
yearly repeat._

**[Update: 7/21/2022 | Note: Added feature to set schedule recurring asset live & expire i.e. every Wed]**

This article will guide you through how to create and set an asset's
Live/Expire status.

Below is an example screenshot of where to find this feature:

## **Let's jump in and get started:**

  1. You need to have your screens set up and paired. For more information on how to do that, click [here](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016374813-Set-up-add-a-screen).  
  

  2. Then log on to our portal: <http://app.optisigns.com/>[  
  
](http://app.optisigns.com/)

  3. Go to **Files/Assets** , Click on 3-dot menu on the top right of the asset to adjust the status.  
  

  4. (Option) You can also multi-select your assets and set the live/ expire. Select your assets and click the 'Set Asset(s) to Live / Expire' button.  

  5. The below menu will pop up.

  *     * Type: One time: You can set your asset to live / expire at one time
    * Live Time
      * Live Immediately - The asset is immediately available and will display if already deployed within a schedule, playlist or directly assigned to a screen.
      * Live At - Set a date and time for the asset to be available for use within schedules or playlists.
    * Expire Time
      * Non Expiring - The asset is always available after going live and will continue to display if the asset is already deployed within an existing schedule, playlist or directly assigned to a screen.
      * Expire At - Set a date and time for the asset to default to be unavailable after expiration. In order for future re-use, you must re-enter a new Live At date in the future.
    * Timezone \- Set the appropriate time zone that relates to the asset status.
    * Delete Option \- Checking the box will delete the asset after expiration. 

  *     * Type: Schedule: You can set it live in the schedule 
    * Schedule: Create the schedule for your asset live/ expire. It likes you create an event in your calendar. 
    * Timezone \- Set the appropriate time zone that relates to the asset status.
    * Delete Option \- Checking the box will delete the asset after expiration.   
  

  1.      *        *   2. Click Save.  

  3. If you have not already, assign the asset into an existing Playlist, Schedule, Splitscreen or even directly to a screen.  
Once the Live/Expire status setup is complete, the asset will indicate when
it's scheduled to go live and if it was previously set to expire.  
  
  
  

## **That's all! Congratulations!**

Note: This asset status change does immediately affect existing playlists or
schedules where the asset has been previously been placed.  
  
If you have any additional questions, concerns or any feedback about
OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

