Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016247974-how-to-upload-manage-your-files-assets

# How to Upload & Manage Your Files/ Assets

## **Introduction:**

This article will walk you through how to manage your files/ contents.  
You can upload, search, preview, download, delete, add to playlists, replace
thumbnails, duplicate assets, and replace assets.

## **Upload:**

Go to [Files/Assets](https://app.optisigns.com/app/assetManagement) page, and
click **Upload Files**.

You can drag files from your File Explorers or Finders here. Or connect with
your Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive, etc. and select the files you want to
upload to OptiSigns.

Click "**Upload** "

You will see messages saying that your files are successfully uploaded, and
you will see the files as well.

## **Search:**

If you have a large number of files and contents, you can quickly search
through your contents to find the one you need. Simply enter some keywords in
the search box. The Web Portal will search as you type for any files
containing the phase you typing in.

## **Preview/Download Files**

If for some reason you need to preview or download the file. Just hover on the
file. Then click on the blue download button. A new window will be opened with
your file. You can preview there or save a copy to your local drive.

## **Delete Files:**

You can hover on the file and click the three dots of the file. Then select
**Delete**.

When prompted for confirmation, click **Delete**.

## **Add to Playlists**

You can hover on the file and click the three dots of the file. Then select
**Add to Playlists**  

You can select your playlist and click Save

The asset will add to your playlists.

## **Replace thumbnail**

You can hover on the file and click the three dots of the file. Then select
**Replace thumbnail**

You can drag files from your File Explorers or Finders here. Or connect with
your Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive, etc. and select the files you want to
make it to thumbnail.

## **Duplicate Asset**

You can hover on the file and click the three dots of the file. Then select
**Duplicate Asset**

## ****

The asset will be duplicated with copy of ... (original file name)

## **Replacing a file**

You can hover on the file and click the three dots of the file. Then select
**Replace asset**

You can drag files from your File Explorers or Finders here. Or connect with
your Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive, etc. and select the files you want to
replace it.

If you have any additional questions, concerns or any feedback about
OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

