Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/20425113117459-navigating-through-optisigns-template-library

# Navigating Through OptiSigns' Template Library

### Want to display captivating content? Our exclusive, extensive, and ever-
growing template library covering various industries is here to optimize your
screens in minutes!

Use Case  
---  
A bustling retail chain wants to streamline their in-store promotions to boost
sales during the holiday season. By leveraging OptiSigns' library of prebuilt
templates, they can quickly and efficiently create visually appealing digital
signage that highlights special offers, festive greetings, and new arrivals,
ensuring a consistent and professional look across all locations without the
need for a dedicated design team. This allows the marketing department to
focus on strategic planning while still delivering high-quality content that
engages customers and drives sales.  
  
**In this article:**

  1. Introduction to OptiSigns' Template Library 
  2. Accessing the Template Library 
  3. Navigating the Template Library
  4. Selecting and Customizing a Template

## Introduction to OptiSigns' Template Library

OptiSigns' template library is your one-stop destination for creating
captivating and dynamic digital signage content. A treasure trove of
professionally designed templates ready to breathe life into your digital
signage projects.

In this article, we will guide you through the effortless process of exploring
and uncovering captivating templates within the library, empowering you to
elevate your digital signage content creation and take your message to the
next level.

Watch this 3min video to learn more:  
---  
  
## Accessing the Template Library

You can access our Template library in **four different ways** , as show
below:

  1. Click on Templates at the top banner on our [Files/Assets Management Page](https://app.optisigns.com/app/assetManagement)
  2. Click Templates below Upload Files
  3. Access it through the Designer App
  4. Or, simply go to https://canvas.optisigns.com/

## Navigating the Template Library

Once you've accessed the template library, you should be taken to this home
page:

  1. **New Design:** Click to access a blank canvas and create your own design.
  2. **Your Designs:** Designs that you have created.
  3. **Category:** Our templates are organized into intuitive categories, simplifying your search and catering to diverse needs.
  4. **Search Bar:** Use related keywords to search for a template.
  5. **Tags:** Popular tags used in templates to help you effortlessly search for a template to match your needs. If clicked, will take you to a list of all templates using those tags.
  6. **Featured:** This section is constantly updating to display relevant templates for upcoming holidays, events, and more!

## Selecting and Customizing a Template

Once you have chosen your category or found a template you'd like to use,
click on the **thumbnail** to preview the template in detail.

  * You will see the template's size and relevant tags.

You can click on the tags to quickly search for relevant templates.

Click **Use this template** to open the template in our **Designer app**.

To learn more about how to use OptiSigns' Designer app to be able to customize
your templates, please click [here](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/4404151402899-How-to-use-OptiSigns-Template-Designer-app-to-make-
your-Digital-Signs-in-minutes).

Once you're done customizing your template, click the **Save** icon.

You can also directly push this template to your screens or do so from the
screens page. Follow[ this guide](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/18988049363859) to learn more about assigning content to your
screens.

## That's it!

Just push your templates to your screen or throw it in a playlist or schedule,
and voila! You're ready to captivate your audiences with OptiSigns!

