Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500003244381-about-the-onhold-devices-folder

# About the OnHold Devices Folder

### In this article, we’ll explain the various uses of the OnHold Devices
Folder and how it helps with screen management.

  * What Happens when a Screen is Placed in the OnHold Devices Folder
  * Removing a Screen from the OnHold Devices Folder
  * Frequently Asked Questions
    * My screen is saying my device is On Hold, how do I fix this?

When poking around the Screens tab in OptiSigns, you may have noticed the
**OnHold Devices** folder.

This useful folder allows you to place screens to the side, where they will no
longer count toward your license count.

To do this, click the **Three Dots** icon, then hit the **“Move to OnHold
Devices”** option.

**NOTE:** This feature can be used by any OptiSigns user, from **Free Plan**
and above.

* * *

## What Happens when a Screen is Placed in the OnHold Folder

To show the value of the OnHold Folder, a demonstration is in order. The
easiest way to see how it works is to go to the **Subscription Plan** screen,
through your account options:

When here, you’ll see a screen similar to this:

This means that this account has 10 screen licenses, and is currently using a
single screen.

Now, we’ll navigate back to the screen tab. Click any screen and hit the
**“Move to OnHold Folder”** option. You’ll be given this prompt:

Crucially, **_any content displaying on this screen will cease_**. For all
intents and purposes, hitting **Move** here will deactivate this screen
completely. Pushing content to this screen will show this:

If you are alright with the above, hitting **Move** will place it in the
Folder. It will disappear from the Screens tab, and you’ll see the number next
to the OnHold Devices folder go up, signifying that the screen is in this
folder now.

Clicking the OnHold Devices folder will let you see the screen again.

Hitting **Edit** on any screen in the OnHold Devices folder will display a
much shorter list of options until it is removed from the folder.

Now, to see the effects of moving a screen to the OnHold folder, navigate back
to the **Subscription Plan** screen. Your active screen count will have
decreased by one:

Note that this **_does not affect total license count_** _._ All this does is
free up a license for a different screen while not deleting your screen’s
settings. This lets your account have more screens registered than licenses,
in case you need to swap them around.

* * *

## Removing a Screen From the OnHold Devices Folder

Before you can remove a screen from the OnHold Devices folder, you’ll need a
free license space. So, if you’re at your screen limit, either move a
different screen into the OnHold Devices folder, or delete a screen before
starting.

The actual process of removing a screen from the folder is straightforward.
First, navigate to the OnHold Devices folder:

Click the **Three Dots** icon, then click **Move** :

A screen will show up displaying all your created Screen folders. By default,
hitting **Move** without clicking one of these folders will move it to the
Screens tab homepage. Either select a folder to use, or simply hit Move:

Now, you should see a notification letting you know the move was successful,
and the screen should no longer be present in your OnHold Devices folder:

**NOTE:** If you do not have any free licenses, this notification will not
appear, and you will not be able to remove your screen from the folder until
you free up a license or purchase more.

Your screen will be placed wherever you moved it, and it can now be assigned
content again.

* * *

## Frequently Asked Questions

Here, we’ll address some common issues our users face when dealing with the
OnHold folder.

### My screen is saying my device is OnHold, how do I fix this?

If your screen says your device is OnHold, that means the device is in the
OnHold folder. Simply remove it from the folder using the steps above and that
should fix the issue.

### That's all!

If you have any additional questions, concerns, or any feedback about
OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com).

