Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/17639078588691-how-to-cancel-subscription-or-pause-subscription-for-seasonal-use-case

# How to cancel subscription or pause subscription for Seasonal Use Case

With OptiSigns, customers paying via credit card have the capability to manage
the subscription update in their account. Customers can decrease or increase
your subscription as needed. Customers can go to the subscription update page
to cancel the subscription or pause the subscription (reducing the number of
subscriptions to 0), this will stop future charges on the account. This will
help customers who are using the services seasonally or customers who want to
cancel the subscription but would still like to keep the account and contents
available as they may restart the subscription in the future.

Our "**Onhold** " folder reduces the number of screen licenses that are being
counted as using subscription. This allows you to have new screens added
without buying a new screen license. This also allows you to cancel your
subscription without having to remove your screens from your OptiSigns
account.

**IMPORTANT**  
---  
Please make sure to follow all the steps below to ensure your subscriptions
are cancelled or paused.  
  
**Let's get started!**

* * *

**1)** To move a screen to OnHold just click the "..." button on the screen in
the **Screens** tab.

Then select "**Move to OnHold Device"**

A new folder called "**Onhold Device** " will be created and your device will
be moved in there.

  * Devices in the OnHold screen cannot have content assigned to them, it will just display "Paired" on the screen.
  * OnHold screens also do not take up subscription slots, so you can reduce them or reuse them for another screen.

**2)** When you want to use the screen again, you can move it out of OnHold to
another Folder

**3)**_If this is a seasonal use case and the main goal for using our "Onhold"
folder is to not be billed when your screens are not in use:_**You MUST
remember to also remove the licenses under your OptiSigns account.**

If this isn't completed, you may be charged for these licenses.

On the top right-hand side click on your **username (Default)** ,
**Subscription plan** , and **Update subscription**.

This will display your account subscription details.

**4)** To remove the licenses from your account;

You will want to click on the "**-** " icon to reduce your subscriptions and
"**next** " to cancel your account.

This will officially cancel your subscription, however, you will always have
the ability to reactivate your account!

If you have feedback on how to make the how-to guides better, please let us
know at: [support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

