Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/4416889688979-how-to-remotely-manage-your-optisigns-android-player

# How to Remotely Manage your OptiSigns Android Player

When you purchase an OptiSigns Android Player, the device will have an MDM
software pre-provisioned on the device to provide us the capability to
remotely connect to the device for troubleshooting. You may wonder if that
capability can be extended to you as well, so that it is easier on your side
to have some control over the device remotely. The answer is yes. With this
integration, you will be able to do these things:

  * Reboot Device
  * Take Screenshot
  * Add/Remove WiFi
  * Update Time Zone 
  * View Device Info
  * See Remote Command History
  * and more

Note: All MDM Remote Command Executions require a Pro Plus or above plan.  
---  
  
**To Remotely Manage Your Device**

Go to the Edit Screen page, expand the Advance the section. Then scroll to the
bottom, you will see the section where you can remotely manage the devices.

* * *

**Reboot Device**

If you want to reboot your devices, you can click the reboot button. Once you
confirm to reboot it in the popup, a reboot signal will be sent to the device.

**Take Screenshot**

****

Take a screenshot of the content currently being displayed on your screen. The
taken screenshot will display below the remote command buttons.

**Add/Remove WiFi**

If you click the WiFi button, you will see a popup where you can manage the
WiFi network on the device. It will list out all the saved WiFi network on the
device.

If you would like to add a new WiFi network, you can click the "Add new Wi-Fi
access point" button.

Enter your WiFi information in the popup and click add. Then the newly added
WiFi network will be saved on your device.

**Update Time Zone**

When you click the update time zone button, you will be prompted a page where
you can set the time zone on the device.

**View Device Info**

To check the device info, you can click the "**i** " button for device info.
It will pull up the hardware and network info of the device. You may find the
info of interest to you. One common example is if you are using some network
monitoring tool, you can use the MAC address to lookup the device in the other
systems.

## **Remote Command History**

This allows you to go through a history of the remote commands, what device it
was on, and the execution result of the command.

* * *

## **Additional Commands**

### ****

Next to the MDM buttons is a small arrow, which may give some of the following
options.

  * **Refresh & Relaunch:** This will refresh and relaunch your screen. This is useful if your screen is frozen or is not functioning as intended, but you don't want to reboot the device. 
  * **Send HDMI CEC** \- Use HDMI CEC commands to remotely turn on/off TV. Please make sure HDMI CEC support is enabled on the TV.
  * **Send RS232:** This is used to utilize RS232 Commands to remotely turn your TV On/Off
  * **Get used storage/free storage:** This will give you information on your used and free device storage.
  * **Install OptiSigns Versions:** This lets you remotely install different versions of OptiSigns.  If you downgrade from the current version, please make sure to turn off Auto Updates, otherwise it will automatically update to the current version.
  * Disable Auto Update: This will allow you to remotely disables automatic updates on the OptiSigns Android Player. This is useful when you downgrade from the current version.
  * **Install APK:** Remotely install APK with a direct link/URL to the APK file.

### **That's it!**

Now, you know how to remotely manage your OptiSigns Player.

**Note:** In order for this feature to work and take effect, your device need
to be online. If your device is not connected to the network, the command will
not be able to reach to your device and take effect.

If you have any additional questions or any feedback about OptiSigns, feel
free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

