Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/17342932920211-event-logging-and-analytics-for-external-communication-rs-232

# Event logging and analytics for External Communication(RS-232)

With OptiSigns you can enable track of the data communication between the
digital signage player and external devices through external communication
(RS232). The feature is available for customers on Enterprise plan.

Once it is enabled, it will keep tracking of the inbound/outbound event data
that was sent between the digital signage player and external devices. For
example, if you are using IoT sensors, the feature can track the serial
command that was sent from your sensors, and you can analyze the data to
monitor and further optimize your IoT sensors usage. Or you can track the
RS232 commands(power on/off, mute/unmute etc) that was sent to your TVs and
use it as a proof of your compliance.

### **Prerequisite:**

To use this feature, you will need to confirm in advance that the connection
between your digital signage player and external devices are working properly.

The external communication(RS-232) should be configured and tested. Depending
on your use case, you can follow below listed documents.

  * If you are using RS-232 commands to communicate with your TV, please check the[ advanced scheduling feature](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/9061950942995-Using-RS-232-to-Schedule-TV-Power-On-Off-or-other-commands). 
  * If you are using IoT sensors, please check [IoT sensor Add-on](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/13097501958291-OptiSigns-IoT-Sensor-Add-on-Quick-Start).

Note: To test and confirm your external communication(RS-232) connection and
configuraiton are set up properly, you can use the "Trigger Event Viewer" from
the side menu of OptiSigns player. It can show the events received from
external devices/sensors, and also you can use it to test send commands out to
external devices.  

##

## **Let's jump in and get started:**

**1\. Setup: Enable RS232 logging**

If you are on Enterprise plan and interested in this feature, please contact

[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

Once the feature is made available, you can go to settings, under
Advanced->External Communications(RS232) you will see the setup(Analytics)
page available. You can also use the link below.  
<https://app.optisigns.com/app/s/external-coms>

Click "Analytics", you will be able to enable the RS232 logging here.

By default, event data will be logged in real-time.If internet is
disconnected, data will be saved locally and will be synced to server
automatically when the device come back online.

If for some reason, you don't want real-time data (i.e. to reduce network
usage during day time, or if you do "drive-by" data collection once a while).
You can unchecked Real-time option and select an upload interval of your
choice.

**2\. Enable data collection on IoT sensors add-on**

If you are using IoT sensors, you can set it up to collect the event data
within the IoT Sensor Add-on. Simply tick the "Send Data" checkbox, it will
start to track the event data. **  
  
**

**3\. Data collection with advanced scheduling**

If you are using advanced scheduling to control you TV or other devices
supporting RS232, the event data collection is enabled by default if you
choose the "RS232 Commands" type. You can configure and send multiple commands
together, the commands will be sent to the target device one after anther with
small latency. If the target devices are responding with confirmation, the
response will be logged as well.

Please note, if you are sending multiple commands together, please check the
target device specification, the target device may take longer time to execute
the commands, in the case, please send the command separately on its own,
otherwise the following commands may not be executed and you will not see
response from the logging.

**4\. Export Data: Schedule data export & download data**

You can configure OptiSigns to regularly export your raw data.

Here you can control the frequency of the data export, time window of the data
export, and the recipients of the data exports. Also, if you have your own AWS
S3 buckets available, you can also configure your AWS S3 as the destination of
the data export, it is easier for you to automate and connect it to your own
analytics process.

Here's how a data export looks like:

You can also go to the report history tab and download the historical data
export.

## **Summary:**

The RS-232 logging and analytics will collect the event data and make it
available to customers. The data is available in JSON format, you can automate
the data export and build your own data pipeline to process the data for
further analysis.

**That's all!**

If you have any additional questions, concerns or any feedback about
OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

