Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/17604055961747-how-to-create-a-content-library-kiosk

# How to Create a Content Library Kiosk

### Transform your catalogs of products or library of videos and documents
into an interactive kiosk within minutes! This step-by-step guide will help
you get your Content Library Kiosk set up in no time.

Use Case  
---  
An art gallery has digitally organized all their artwork images and videos
into categorized folders for easy access. The goal is to convert these assets
into an interactive kiosk. Visitors to the gallery can use the kiosk to click
on images, viewing each piece of artwork in detail. The system enhances their
experience by allowing them to visualize how each artwork would look in
different settings, such as a living room, with the help of images showing the
art in various staged environments. This interactive kiosk aims to make the
art selection process more immersive and personalized, enriching the visitor's
engagement and understanding of the art on display.  
  
**In this article**

  1. OptiSigns Introduction and Tutorial Video
  2. What is a Content Library Kiosk?
  3. Creating a Content Library Kiosk
  4. Quick Tip: Adding a Header to Individual Files

## OptiSigns Introduction and Tutorial Video

## What is a Content Library Kiosk?

Think of it as organizing computer files with folders:

  * You create a Root folder on the Files/Assets page, which serves as the central directory for all your content.
  * Within the root folder, you create Subfolders that act as categories or themes, providing an organized structure.
  * Your digital assets are placed in these subfolders, typically grouping together similar items or materials related to the folder's theme. This organization makes it easy to find and access specific content, creating an organized and user-friendly experience for your audience.

Now that you have everything digitally organized, you're ready to transform it
into an interactive kiosk for your customers to engage with.

Here is a live example of a Content Library Kiosk:

  * [Example](https://virtualscreen.optisigns.com/#VTJGc2RHVmtYMStYM1dSMnRjKzBBb29MeFBYbnpoaTFHaDhNcStLWk4xenhTeGFHbVFnOXlSOWxpd2RxMlVUN29hc3JPZnZXaXJSQnFkUFlZbXJLaVE9PQ==)

In this article, we'll show you how to create a Content Library Kiosk that
turns waiting times into engaging, fun experiences, enhancing service quality.

**NOTE**  
---  
Content Library Kiosks can only be created by subscribers on an **Engage**
plan or above.  
  
##  **Creating a Content Library Kiosk**

Before you can create the Content Library Kiosk app, you must first establish
a content library. This library should be organized or prepared on our
Files/Asset page, as specifying the Root folder is a required step.

Once the library is ready, you can begin to create your content library kiosk
app. Please follow steps below:

Go to Engage, then click **New App.**

Select **Touch Screen Kiosks**. Then, go to the next step to **Select App.**  

On the Select App page, click on **Content Library Kiosk app** then continue
to **Build**.

On the **Build** page, you will have several key features that you can
customize and configure. Let's dive into each configuration detail:

  * **Name** : A unique identifier for the asset, not visible on the kiosk
  * **Header** : The title displayed on the content library kiosk.
  * **Custom Logo** : A personalized logo that can be added to the interface.
  * **Root Folder** : The main directory where content is organized. Required field.
  * **Featured Folder** : A designated directory showcasing highlighted or prominently displayed content. You can only choose featured folders that are within your root folder. In Carousel Explorer View, the featured folder will be displayed at the top of the kiosk page.
  * **Display Mode** : Choose a layout for showcasing content. 
    * **Carousel Explorer View** \- Folders within the root folder are presented in a rotating carousel format, while individual contents within the root folder will display below it as tiles.
    * **Content Explorer View** -Folders within the root folder are presented at the top as long tiles, with individual contents within the root folder displayed below as tiles.
    * **Tile View** \- All contents, regardless of whether they are in folders within the root folder, will be displayed as individual items and in tiles.
  * **Portrait Mode** : This setting will turn all your content orientation to a vertical display.
  * **Sort By** : Criterion on how your content will be displayed on the kiosk based on the assets created within the folders.
  * **When No Network** : Options for behavior when the kiosk is offline. 
    * **Do nothing** \- Leave as-is
    * **Disable Web Assets** \- Any assets requiring the web will still be visible but disabled until the network is restored.
    * **Hide Web Assets** \- Any assets requiring the web will hidden until the network is restored.
  * **Close Icon Location** \- Location of where you would like the Close (X) icon to display on your kiosk screen; choose 'None' if you do not want the close icon to display.
  * **Theme:** The visual style applied to the kiosk interface.
  * **Font Size:** Specify the size of the text within the interface; set to Default
  * **Font Family** : The chosen typeface for text elements.

**Advanced Settings** :

  * **Timeout Asset Viewing** : Set duration in seconds before automatic closure of displayed assets 
  * **Timeout Browsing** : Set a time limit in seconds for user inactivity before returning to the main screen.
  * **Background Image** : Customize the image for the kiosk background.

Once you have set your configuration settings, click **Review** to continue to
the next page.

  * On the Review page, you can review all of your configuration settings and preview the screen before committing your changes. You can also preview in full screen by clicking on 'Preview Full Screen' at the bottom.

Click **Assign** to continue to the next page.

  * On this page, you can assign your content library kiosk to a Screen or Screens with a specific tag.
  * You can also choose to Assign Later.

When you have signed your Screens, click **Complete**.

**NOTE**  
---  
The Content Library Kiosk feature is limited to **4 layers** of depth. As
such, we do not recommend attempting to make kiosks of 5 layers or greater.  
  
##  Quick Tip: Adding a Header to Individual Files

The content library kiosk app typically uses folder names as titles on the
screen. However, when there are individual files without folders, there might
be no header.

To add one, click the three dots in the top right corner of the folder
containing the individual files or assets, then choose '**Edit Folder
Description**.'

This description will appear on the kiosk screen to describe the list of
individual files.

## **That's all! It's just that simple!**

If you have any additional questions, concerns or feedback about OptiSigns,
feel free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

