Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/8899727608083-how-to-use-the-qr-scan-to-interact-touchless-qr-app

# How to use the QR Scan-to-Interact (Touchless QR) app

### Turn any static screens into interactive experience - no additional sensor
or camera needed. Viewers can scan QR codes, get a list of actionable menu
like play a video, display more info and the screen will play that content. A
quick, step-by-step guide on how to get your QR Codes running quickly through
our QR Scan-to-Interact feature on Engage.

In this article:

  * Step 1: Create Your QR Scan-to-Interact App
  * Step 2: Push Your QR Scan-to-Interact App to a Screen
    * Option 1: With a Design (Recommended)
    * Option 2: Through Engage
    * Option 3: Manually Pushing It to a Screen

**NOTE:** This is feature is only available on our **Engage** and above plans.  
---  
  
Here is a quick video show how it works:

Now, let's get started in setting your's up!

* * *

## Step 1: Create Your QR Scan-to-Interact App**  
**

Go to our portal: <http://app.optisigns.com/>

Then, go to **Engage → Explore More**

****

Next, click **QR Scan-to-Interact → Build**

The following screen will appear:

  * **_Name_** \- Name of the app in your Engage asset library. It will **not** be displayed on your screens.
  * **URL** \- The website link your customer will go to when they scan the QR code.
  * **Update Interval -** Default is 30 minutes. This means the QR code will refresh every 30 mins for security concerns. 
  * **Expires in** \- Default is 30 minutes. This means the URL link will expire in 30 mins for security concerns. 
  * **Params** \- _(optional)_ If you are using a web analytics tool and would like to track the performance of a campaign or analyze how many times this QR code is visited by your customers, add additional parameters here. 

Click **Save** or **Assign** if you want to assign it directly to a screen.
Should you Assign it in this manner, it will appear as a blank screen with
only your QR code. This is covered in more detail in the next section.

**NOTE:** The QR Scan-to-Interact feature needs to work together with a mobile
website. This can be designed and hosted by you, or you can host on OptiSigns
using the [Hosted Website](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/7592123111699) app. The first Template in the Hosted Website app
is an example of how to integrate with the QR Scan-to-Interact feature.  
---  
  
* * *

## Step 2: Push Your QR Scan-to-Interact App to a Screen

There are three ways to assign your QR Scan-to-Interact to a screen:

  1. With a Design (Recommended)
  2. Through Engage
  3. Manually Pushing it to a Screen

### Option 1: With a Design (Recommended)

Your QR Scan-to-Interact app can be easily placed on any design, whether it's
a pre-existing asset or one created in OptiSigns via Designer. This will make
your screen pop and give context for what the QR code is. We highly recommend
this option.

To do this, **Save** your App or hit **Assign Later** when finished creating
the app.

Next, navigate to the **Files/Assets** tab. Here, either select an existing
asset, or navigate to the **Designer** app:

Once here, you can add your Scan-to-Interact app to the design via **"Widgets"
→ "Apps"**

  

Now, navigate to the **Engage** tab and find your **QR Scan-to-Interact**
asset:

It will appear on your design, where it can be dragged, resized, and placed
anywhere you like.

###

Once you've placed it where you like, rename the asset and hit **Save**. Once
the asset is saved, the **Push to Screens** option will become available:

Clicking it will open this window:

  * **Asset** \- The name of your asset.
  * **Scale** \- Choose between None, Fit, Stretch, and Zoom. Fit is the default. This shows how the image will be displayed on your screen.
  * **Target -** Here, select between Screens, Tags, and Tag Rules. To better understand Tags and Tag Rules, read [this article.](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/20879903340947-How-to-Use-Content-Tags-in-The-Playlist)
  * **Screens / Tags / Tag Rule** \- Select which screen, tag, or tag rule will be associated with the QR code. This determines where your content will appear.

Once these are input, you have a few other options:

  * **Temp Takeover** \- Allows the QR code to temporarily take over the selected screen. You can select from several predetermined time frames, or create your own.
  * **Schedule Changes** \- Allows you to schedule when the QR code goes live and appears on screen.
  * **Push** \- Immediately push your QR code to the screen, for an indeterminate amount of time.

You'll also be able to Preview your screen before you push it live. Once you
do, you're done!

### Option 2: Through Engage

This option will be chosen if you click **"Assign"** after setting up the last
stage. The QR code will show up on your screen as a

Once you've created the parameters for your QR code, you can assign it
directly to one of your screens. There are two options:

  * **Target -** Select between Screens and Tags. Selecting one or the other will change the next option to either Screens or Tags, depending on which you select here.
  * **Screens / Tags** \- Select which screen or tag where you want your content to appear.

Once these are selected, hit **Assign**. Hitting  _Assign Later_ will mean
you'll need to assign the screen through Options 1 or 3.

### Option 3: Manually Pushing it to a Screen

This is another way to get the QR code onscreen if you choose **"Save"** or
**"Assign Later"** after setting up the app.

If you want to push your QR code to a screen, you'll need to find it under the
**Engage** tab. Hover over it and you should see three dots. Click on this,
and you'll see the **"Push to Screens"** option.

Once there, you'll see these options:

  * **Asset** \- The name of your asset.
  * **Target -** Here, select between Screens, Tags, and Tag Rules. To better understand Tags and Tag Rules, read [this article.](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/20879903340947-How-to-Use-Content-Tags-in-The-Playlist)
  * **Screens / Tags / Tag Rule** \- Select which screen, tag, or tag rule will be associated with the QR code. This determines where your content will appear.

Once these are input, you have a few other options:

  * **Temp Takeover** \- Allows the QR code to temporarily take over the selected screen. You can select from several predetermined time frames, or create your own.
  * **Schedule Changes** \- Allows you to schedule when the QR code goes live and appears on screen.
  * **Push** \- Immediately push your QR code to the screen, for an indeterminate amount of time.

You'll also be able to Preview your screen before you push it live.

* * *

## **That's it!**

You've successfully created a QR Scan-to-Interact app. It can be edited at any
time from the **Engage** tab. These QR codes can be added to any existing
content schedules or playlists.

If you have any additional questions, concerns or any feedback about
OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

