Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/42313875427859-brand-kit-and-enforcing-brand-guidelines

# Brand Kit and Enforcing Brand Guidelines

### In this article, we’ll go over Designer’s Brand Kit options for enforcing
brand guidelines across created content.

  * What You’ll Need
  * Basics of the Brand Kit
    * Fonts Management
    * Colors Management

OptiSigns’ Designer tool comes with a fully-functional Brand Kit, capable of
enforcing corporate brand guidelines across multiple users.

Using the Brand Kit function, you can:

  * Limit fonts and color codes to adhere to internal guidelines
  * Prevent unauthorized users from modifying designs.

For an intro to using Designer, see our article on [**Getting Started with
Designer**](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/42087942047379-Getting-Started-with-Designer).

## What You’ll Need

  * An OptiSigns [**Pro Plus plan**](https://www.optisigns.com/pricing)**** or higher
  * **Owner** or **Administrator** permissions. See [**Managing User Roles**](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360046356113-Advanced-Security-Managing-User-Roles) for more information.
  * Branded assets (fonts, colors, etc.), if needed

## Basics of the Brand Kit

The **Brand Kit** option can be selected from the Designer Side Menu:

The most critical option here is **Enforce Branding**. This is a toggle which
switches between three modes:

  * **None -** Enforce Branding is not enabled.
  * **Guideline -** Enforce Branding is enabled, but the preselected fonts and colors are only used as a guideline. Users will still be able to use any font or color.
  * **Enforce -** Enforce Branding is strictly enabled. Any font or color outside of those preselected will be disabled for normal users.

When **Enforce Branding** is enabled, new options become available in the
Brand Kit side menu: **Brand Fonts** and **Brand Colors**.

### Fonts Management

The **Brand Fonts** section can be used to manage accepted fonts through the
Brand Kit. To add fonts from within OptiSigns, hit **Add Brand Font**.

Numerous fonts can be selected from the list of **180** fonts available on
Designer:

Once fonts are selected, they’ll be visible under the **Brand Fonts** section.

The yellow font signifies the Default font for all users. Hovering over
another font lets you set it as Default or Remove it from the approved font
list.

With Enforce Branding enabled, only fonts on this list will be available for
users when they select a font from the Font picker.

### Colors Management

The **Brand Colors** can be used to manage accepted fonts through the Brand
Kit. Hit the **+** to open up the Color Picker:

#### Color Picker

  1. **Color Selector**
  2. **Currently Selected Color / Color Drop Tool**
  3. **Color Slider**
  4. **Opacity/Transparency Slider**
  5. **Color Code Input**
  6. **Code Switcher** \- Switch between [hexademical](https://htmlcolorcodes.com/),[ RGB](https://www.rapidtables.com/web/color/RGB_Color.html), and[ HSLA](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_colors_hsl.asp) codes
  7. **Previous Colors Used**

**NOTE**  
---  
The **Opacity/Transparency Slider** applies to whichever element the color
picker is being applied to, be that text, background, or any of the other
areas a color picker can be used.  
  
The **Color Drop Tool** lets you choose any color easily.

**NOTE**  
---  
The Color Drop Tool is not available on certain browsers.  
  
The color restriction will be applied to all colors in the design - including
backgrounds, texts, shapes, and elements. Once enforced, the color palette
will only show colors that are allowed by Enforced Branding.

The checkmark denotes the default color. This can be altered by hovering over
other colors, and colors can be removed in the same manner.

**NOTE**  
---  
Once Enforce Branding is enabled, background and text colors will be evaluated
at the time of saving. If you are using a default white background or black
text, ensure these are added to the accepted brand colors. Otherwise, you will
receive an error message at the time of saving.  
  
### That’s all!

OptiSigns is the leader in [digital signage
software](https://www.optisigns.com/). If you have any additional questions,
concerns or any feedback about OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our
support team at [support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com).

