Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/42830652820115-your-templates

# Your Templates

  * [Saving and Using Custom Templates](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/undefined#Templates)
  * [Saving and Using Custom Components](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/undefined#Components)

In Designer, the **Your Temp** (short for “Your Templates”) tab allows you to
save and reuse your created templates across multiple designs.

For more general information on the Designer app, see our[
](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/42087942047379-Getting-
Started-with-Designer)[**Getting Started in
Designer**](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/42087942047379-Getting-Started-with-Designer)**** guide.

This feature can be accessed from the Side Menu within Designer:

Within this tab, there are two options: **Templates** and **Components.**

  * **Templates** allows you to save the current design as a Custom Template for use in later designs. This saves the _**entire design**_ as a template.
  * **Components** allows you to save a selected component (be that text, image, shape, widget, etc.) as a custom component for use in later designs. This saves _**just the selected component**_ as a template.

Below, we’ll cover how to save and store these custom templates and give
examples of how they can be used.

* * *

## Saving and Using Custom Templates

The **Templates** tab has one option when you first open it: **Add Current
Design as Template**. Nothing needs to be selected in order to use this.

Clicking this will bring a popup asking you to confirm your choice. Click
**Add**. This saves whatever you have on the current design as a Custom
Template, shared across your team.

**NOTE**  
---  
The Custom Template may appear as a black box when it is first added to the
design. However, it**** will still function normally. Saving the design and
relaunching it should make it appear.  
  
To use this template, simply click on it from the Side Menu:

  
This will be present across any Designer instance.

To delete a Custom Template, hover over it and click the trash can that
appears.

* * *

## Saving and Using Custom Components

The **Components** tab has one option when you first open it: **Add Current
Selection as Component**. A component on the current design needs to be
selected for this to be used.

Clicking this will bring up a popup asking you to confirm your choice. Click
**Add**. This saves the selected component as a Custom Component, shared
across your team.

**NOTE**  
---  
The Custom Component may appear as a black box when it is first added to the
design. However, it**** will still function normally. Saving the design and
relaunching it should make it appear.  
  
To use this component, simply click on it from the Side Menu:

This component can then be moved around and placed as needed. It will be
present across any Designer instance.

To delete a Custom Component, hover over it and click the trash can:

### **That’s all!**

OptiSigns is the leader in[ digital signage
software](https://www.optisigns.com/). If you have any additional questions,
concerns or any feedback about OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our
support team at [support@optisigns.com](support@optisigns.com).

