Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/30003143806099-how-to-use-the-optisigns-mobile-admin-app

# How to Use the OptiSigns Mobile Admin App

#### The OptiSigns Mobile Admin App offers remote control over your digital
signage assets. Whether you're without a laptop, misplaced your remote, or far
from your screen, this app provides a streamlined, user-friendly solution.
This guide will help you set up and use the app effectively.

**In this article:**

  1. Setting Up WiFi
  2. Pairing Your Screen
  3. Screen Management
  4. Media Management
     1. Finding and Uploading Assets Efficiently
     2. Managing Assets from the Edit Screen
     3. Changing Displayed Content from Edit Screen
  5. Playlist Management
  6. Schedule Management
  7. Remotely Control

* * *

## 1\. Setting Up WiFi

**NOTE**  
---  
WiFi setup and remote control features are only available for the [OptiSigns
Android Player](https://www.amazon.com/OptiSigns-Android-Digital-Signage-
Player/dp/B09LRF5KCJ?crid=2Z7ZDMBDCEXP4&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.SAxJnND3CWll_6sztko0G3JhAbdeZr4zxuWJdv3keNVGPGdxF6sW9fstWZNzXwHPn-B4dtJb2plmw95cI-3xl4o7NlbbYxLhYoR9APW6iAo.rQXaF-
yYNN_pBcqtjb3Rn_JV89h0KaFRRdilW1nlUA8&dib_tag=se&keywords=OptiSigns+Android+Player&qid=1747841378&sprefix=optisigns+android+player%2Caps%2C109&sr=8-1),
[Pro Player](https://www.amazon.com/OptiSigns-Pro-Digital-Signage-
Player/dp/B0DXX7YS7M?crid=2H2DNQPEDIAP1&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.YdGPuMqNiZdZ9H4sJGaqPl6JzhSMQDygxic-
QANvAK9fjmnI4_VsPcZ5o87R3dqB.JsG-
mg76oPdLAiW8T0cRBS4zhiDkQ2bjxsydxGbRmO0&dib_tag=se&keywords=OptiSigns+Pro+Player&qid=1747841413&sprefix=optisigns+pro+player%2Caps%2C162&sr=8-1),
or [ProMax Player](https://shop.optisigns.com/products/optisigns-promax-
signage-player). An internet connection is required for the initial setup of
the OptiSigns Digital Signage app.  
  
### Steps to Set Up WiFi:

  * Download the OptiSigns Admin App by scanning the QR code displayed on your screen, as shown below:

    * Launch the OptiSigns Admin App → **Log in** to your account.
    * Tap the **me****nu** button in the top left corner.
    * Select "**Setup WiFi" →** Then, click **"Continue"**
    * Choose the device you want to configure. (Typically named **OptiSigns_Player** unless renamed.)

  * Once connected, the screen will show "**Connected to OptiSigns Admin** ".

  * Choose your desired WiFi network.
  * Input the WiFi password → click **"Save"**

Your device is now connected to the WiFi network.

* * *

## 2\. Pairing Screen

Once connected to the internet, your OptiSigns Android Player is ready for
pairing.

**Steps to pairing your screen:**

  * The screen will display a pairing code.
  * Enter this code in the Screen section of the app, or scan the QR code on the right side.

For detailed instructions on each setting up and adding a screen, please visit
**[this article.](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360016374813)**

**Note:**  
---  
The Screen section on the OptiSigns Mobile App has some limitations. It cannot
preview content before displaying it, and it doesn't have the scheduling
features available in the web version.  
  
* * *

## 3\. Screen Management

Manage all screens paired with your account easily from the mobile app.

#### Steps to Manage Your Screens:

Tap the **Screen** **icon** on the bottom left navigation bar → Tap the **3**
**Dots icon** → Select **Edit, Move,** or**Delete**

  * **View the status** (Online/Offline) of all paired screens on the main screen.
  * **Edit a screen:**
    * Tap the**3 Dots Icon** next to the screen name
    * Then, select whether you want to **edit** , **move** , or **delete** a screen.
  * **Edit multiple screens** : 
    * Tap "**Select** " at the top right corner
    * Select multiple Screens
    * Use the buttons at the top of the screen to **edit** , **move** , or **delete** these screens.

* * *

## 4\. Media Management

In the Media section, you can upload and manage files, videos, and images from
your OptiSigns account.

You can access the Media Section by tapping the **icon directly to the left of
the home icon,** as shown in the screenshot below.

### 4.1 Finding and Uploading Assets Efficiently

  * Use the **search bar** to filter your assets.

  * **List/Box Square icon -** change asset view preferences to display as a list or small icons.

  * Tap directly on an asset to view its detailed information, such as type, tags, app type, created date, and last updated time.

  * **3 Dots icon -** This will allow you to manage assets.

    * Move

    * Rename

    * Add to a playlist

    * Delete asset

  * **Select option -** select and manage multiple assets at once.

  * **Green Plus Icon** to add new assets.

    * **Folder -** Create a new folder.
    * **Camera -** Take and upload images instantly.
    * **Upload -** Add files, images, and videos to your account.

### 4.2 Managing Assets from Edit Screen

In the **Screen** **Section** , tap the **Edit** **Screen** option. From
there, you can manage your content:

  * **Quick Assign -** to take swift actions on your screen.**  
**

    * **Stop Playing -** Immediately stop the current asset without replacement.
    * **Recently Played -** Preview and select previously displayed assets to replace the current one.
  * **Name -** Name of your screen
  * **Tags -** These are free-form text fields that you can use to help organize according to a nomenclature that makes sense to your team. 
    * Examples would be a location in the building or room, Room Types, TV platform and sizing, etc.
  * **Type -** Select what will be bound to the screen 
    * **Asset -** This is a specific content type such as images, videos, or app instances i.e. Weather app or Designer app
    * **Playlist -** Selecting this allows you to from the drop-down which will bind the screen to a specific playlist. A playlist is a grouping of assets and or nested playlists in a specific order.
    * **Schedule -** Selecting this allows you to from the drop-down designate a schedule you want the screen to follow.

For detailed instructions on the Advanced and More Settings option, please
follow [this link.](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360048914673)

**Note:** This feature is exclusively available on OptiSigns Android Player.
Simply ensure Bluetooth is enabled on your phone to activate this feature.  
---  
  
#### Limitation

While you can upload and view all assets, creating various apps (Social Media,
Weather Wall, News, etc.) is not supported on the mobile app.

### 4.3 Changing Displayed Content from Edit Screen

Navigate to the **Screens** tab → **Edit **the desired screen → choose
"**Type** " and assign your desired asset/playlist/schedule

#### Limitation

The Media section on the mobile app does not support the "Push to screen"
feature or other options available in the File/Asset section on the web
version.

* * *

## 5\. Playlist Management

#### To access the Playlist section:

Please tap the **3 Dot icon** , located to the right of the home button.

#### Here you can view and manage all your available Playlists.

  * Use the **search bar** and **sort** feature to filter through your Playlists.
  * **Select option** : select and manage multiple Playlists at once.
  * **Green Plus Icon** to add new assets or create a Nested Playlist

    * **Asset** : add new assets to the Playlist.
    * **Playlist** : add a new playlist to the Playlist. For more information about Nested Playlists, please follow [this link](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043621953).
  * **Pencil icon:** change the duration of assets within the Playlist. 
    * **Select option** : select and change multiple assets duration at once.
  * **Delete:** Swipe left to delete an asset from the Playlist.
  * **Hold and move assets:** to arrange the order in the Playlist.
  * **Playlist color:** change the playlist color for better organization.
  * **3 Dots icon** : This will allow you to manage the Playlist. 

    * **Options:** for more Advanced settings. To understand the function of each setting option in the Playlist Settings, please follow [this article.](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/28295074995859)
    * **Move**

    * **Duplicate**

    * **Delete**

#### To display a Playlist:

Navigate to the **Screen** **Section** → **Edit** the desired screen → choose
**Type** , and assign your desired Playlist.

#### Limitation

Like the Media section, the "Push to screen" feature is not available.

* * *

## 6\. Schedule Management

In this section, you can view and adjust any available Schedule on your
account.

  * For more detailed instructions on how to create a schedule, please reference **[this article](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016981853).**

#### Limitation

The "Push to screen" feature is not available.

* * *

## 7\. Remotely Control

Never worry about misplacing or damaging your OptiSigns Android Player remote
again!

With the OptiSigns Admin mobile app, you have the ultimate remote control
solution right at your fingertips.

### 7.1 Connect as Bluetooth Remote in the Edit Screen Section

After pairing screens to your account:

  1. Navigate to the **Screen** section.
  2. Select the screen you want to control remotely.
  3. Scroll down below the **Save** option.
  4. Click on **Connect as Bluetooth Remote** option. 

A scanning window will appear and quickly connect to your device, then you'll
be taken to the remote interface.

We recommend using this method as it is the fastest and easiest way to connect
and use the remote control feature on your OptiSigns Admin Mobile app.
However, please note that this option is available only if the screen is
already paired with your account.

For more detailed instructions, see [How to use the Mobile App for Remote
Control.](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/30304278652563-How-
to-Use-the-Mobile-App-for-Remote-Control)

## That's it!

OptiSigns Mobile Admin App makes managing your digital displays effortless!

If you have any additional questions, concerns, or any feedback about
OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com).

