Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/34087061669523-amazon-signage-stick

# Amazon Signage Stick

### In this article, we’ll walk you through getting OptiSigns set up and
working on an Android Signage Stick.

  * Setting Up the Amazon Signage Stick
  * Pairing with OptiSigns Web Portal

The new [Amazon Signage
Stick](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0D4FCG9MX/ref=pmkt_cms105_web) is out, and
it supports OptiSigns. We’ll help you get our app up and running on it in no
time.

## Setting Up the Amazon Signage Stick

First, plug the Amazon Signage Stick into the HDMI port on your screen, then
connect it to a power source.

Power it on, then follow the onscreen instructions to set up your Network
access.

**NOTE:** During the initial setup of your Amazon Signage Stick, you will need
access to the Internet for it to work.  
---  
  
Once the signage player is online, you should see a screen similar to the one
below urging you to pair your device.

Navigate to the [Amazon Signage Manager](https://console.signage.amazon.com/)
using this link or the one on your screen. Once you’ve logged in to an Amazon
account, you’ll see the screen below. Click **Add Device.**

****

You’ll see the screen below.

Next, input the pairing code appearing on your screen. Then, select
**OptiSigns** from the dropdown.

Then hit **Save**. The OptiSigns app wil automatically download to your
device.

On your desktop, you’ll be taken back to the previous screen and your device
will be saved on the **Devices** tab.  
  

If you’d like to change your device name, hit the **Edit** button.

Your DSN is fixed, but you can edit the name of the device.

Now that you’ve assigned OptiSigns to your device, the app will launch. Once
it does, you’ll need to pair it with the OptiSigns portal, which is where
you’ll assign content to display on your screen.

* * *

## Pairing with the OptiSigns Portal

The first screen you see once the OptiSigns app launches will be this:

Navigate to [the OptiSigns website](http://app.optisigns.com) and log in.
You’ll end up on the **Screens** tab. From here, hit the **Add Screen**
button.

Here, type the Pair Code which appears on your screen. Then, hit **Pair.**

****

Your screen should look like this:

Now you’re ready to upload and assign assets and playlists.

Follow these guides for more detailed steps:

  * [Set up & add a screen](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016374813)
  * [How to Upload & Manage Your Files/ Assets](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016247974)
  * [How to Create & Use Playlists](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/28295104605843)
  * [Create and Using Schedules with OptiSigns](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016981853)

### That’s all!

OptiSigns is a leader in [digital signage
software](https://www.optisigns.com/). If you have any questions or issues
that need support, please feel free to reach out to us at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com).

