Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016174554-amazon-firestick

# Amazon Firestick

#### As of October 2024, FireStick and Fire TV are **no longer supported** as
a digital signage player. This is due to **[Amazon eliminating the ability to
auto start the app](https://www.aftvnews.com/amazon-blocks-long-running-fire-
tv-capability-breaking-popular-apps-with-no-warning-and-giving-developers-the-
runaround/)** with FireStick & Fire TVs starting with FireOS 8. Amazon have
released their own **[digital signage stick](https://signage.amazon.com/)** ,
which supports OptiSigns, and we also have our own **[OptiSigns Android
Player](https://app.optisigns.com/app/s/order-device)**.  
  
---  
  
There are workarounds with [ADB commands](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/23274673797139) or manually to start the app.

However, those workarounds are very inconvenient. We believe that, without an
easy way to AutoStart apps, the Fire Stick is not a good solution for a
Digital Signage player.

Consider a dedicated player, like our [Android Stick
Player](https://links.optisigns.com/szzk), Amazon's [digital signage
stick](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/34087061669523-Amazon-
Digital-Signage-Stick-Setup), Google ChromeCast, or any [Windows, Mac, or
Linux](https://www.optisigns.com/download) device.

  * [FireStick Lite](https://www.amazon.com/fire-tv-stick-lite-latest-alexa-voice-remote-lite/dp/B091G4YP57/) \- $29.99 - this one is still running FireOS 7 and still can AutoStart OptiSigns. However, Amazon may roll out OS updates in the future. 
    * FireStick Lite has severe issues due to performance, so we do not recommend these even though they technically work.
  * **FireOS 8 devices - Not supported:**
    * [Current FireStick 4K](https://www.amazon.com/all-new-amazon-fire-tv-stick-4k/dp/B0BP9MDCQZ/) \- $49.99
    * [Current FireStick 4K Max](https://www.amazon.com/all-new-amazon-fire-tv-stick-4k-max/dp/B0BP9SNVH9/) \- $59.99
    * [All new Amazon TVs with FireStick Built-in](https://www.amazon.com/s?k=tv+with+amazon+fire+built+in&crid=1U06IFJOW9HS2&sprefix=tv+with+amazon%2Caps%2C99&ref=nb_sb_ss_ts-doa-p_5_14)
  * Older FireOS 7 devices - Still can autostart apps 
    * [FireStick 4K Gen 1](https://www.amazon.com/Certified-Refurbished-streaming-device-controls/dp/B0B8C1HYY8/)
    * Older FireSticks

If you already have FireStick Lites, or older FireStick versions, you can
continue this article to set it up.

## **Here are the high-level steps:**

1) Set up Amazon Fire TV Stick

2) Download OptiSigns Digital Signage from Amazon App Store

3) Using OptiSigns' web portal to assign content and remotely manage your
screens

So let's dive in!

### **1) Set up Amazon Fire TV Stick**

Plug in FireStick and connect it to power.

When connecting to power, it's temping to use the USB of the TV to power the
Fire TV for convenience, but Fire TV consume a lot more power than a TV's USB
can supply. So, it is always best to use the power adapter and cable that come
with the Fire TV.

Power on the Fire TV and follow the on-screen instruction to connect to Wi-Fi,
and register the device with your Amazon account.

Note: Amazon Fire TV requires internet to work.  
---  
  
### **2) Download & Set up OptiSigns Digital Signage from Amazon App Store**

Press the **Search** icon on the **Find** section of the Fire TV,

Type in "**OptiSigns** ".  
Fire TV Search can be tricky to use, and sometimes, as you type, it does not
work properly.  
After you have typed "optisigns", be sure to press the menu down button until
the "Optisigns" text is highlighted and then click on it.

Click **Download** on the OptiSigns app icon

Once the app is installed, **launch** it.

The app will ask if you want to automatically start when device start up. It
is recommended to select **yes** , unless you want to manually launch the app
yourself every time.

Next, you will see this pairing screen:

Go to our website:
[https://app.optisigns.com](https://app.optisigns.com/app/screenManagement)

If you don't have an account already, you can create one, or you can also log
in with Google or Facebook account.

Once you logged in Click "**Add screen** " button

In this pop up, type in the Pair Code showing up on your Fire TV screen. Then,
click Pair:

The Fire TV screen will change to:

Now you are ready to upload and assign content.

### **3) Using OptiSigns' web portal to assign content and remotely manage
your screens**

Once you go to our portal at: [https://app.optisigns.com/
](https://app.optisigns.com/)to pair the screen and start assigning content to
it, you can follow these guides for more detailed steps:

  * [Set up & add a screen](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016374813)
  * [How to Upload & Manage Your Files/ Assets](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016247974)
  * [How to Create & Use Playlists](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/28295104605843)
  * [Create and Using Schedules with OptiSigns](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016981853)

If you have feedback on how to make the how-to guides better, please let us
know at: [support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

