Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500011891542-how-to-install-optisigns-as-an-apk-file-on-android-devices

# How to Install OptiSigns as an APK File on Android Devices

  * Enabling Unknown Source Downloads
  * Via External Device
    * Step 1: Download OptiSigns APK and Put on External Storage Drive
    * Step 2: Attach External Storage to Device and Run APKInstaller
  * Via Web Browser
    * Download OptiSigns APK and Run APKInstaller

**NOTE**  
---  
We **strongly recommend** installing the [OptiSigns
app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.optisigns.playe1&hl=en_US)
via the Google Play Store for most Android devices. This is because Google
Play will automatically keep your app up to date with new versions and
releases. This method is for devices which, for whatever reason, **do not have
access to the Google Play store**. Typically, these include Android-enabled
kiosks and certain special purpose AOSP devices.  
  
* * *

## Enabling Unknown Source Downloads

Newer versions of Android will need you to allow **Unknown Source** downloads
in order to successfully install the OptiSigns app. In this case, you know the
source - it's us! - but your Android device may not recognize it. This will
not be needed on every Android device, but it's best to do it just to be safe.

**NOTE**  
---  
These instructions mainly apply to Android Oreo, Pie, 9.0, or later. For even
more detailed instructions on Unknown Sources, [see how to install apps from
unknown sources in Android](https://www.appaloosa.io/blog/guides/how-to-
install-apps-from-unknown-sources-in-android).  
  
To allow Unknown Source downloads, go to **Settings →** **Device Preferences →
Security & restrictions.**

Here, hit **Unknown Sources**. Several apps will appear. If you plan to
download OptiSigns via Chrome Web Browser, make sure it's **Enabled**. If via
an External Source, enable that. This may also present as a File Manager.
Whatever source it is, Enable it.

In this example, we've enabled Chrome. Now we're ready to get OptiSigns on
your device.

* * *

## Installing APK via an External Device

These steps should be followed if you do not have convenient access to a **Web
Browser** on your device, or unstable access to a network connection. If you
have a Web Browser (but no Google Play store), we recommend installing Via Web
Browser.

### Step 1: Download OptiSigns APK and Put on External Storage Device

On a computer, navigate to the [OptiSigns Download
page](https://www.optisigns.com/download). Scroll down until you see the
Android logo. This is where you will download the APK. Click anywhere in the
box.

These options will pop up. Click **Download APK**.

Now find the APK in your Downloads folder (or wherever it was downloaded to)
and place it on your External Storage device.

### Step 3: Attach External Storage to Device and Run APKInstaller

Plug your external storage device into the Android device. Find your pre-
installed APKInstaller. This can usually be found in the **"More Apps"**
section, indicated by multiple dots.

Open your **APKInstaller**. The precise version of this may vary by device,
but should exist in some form if your device lacks a web browser.

Grant access to your external storage by hitting **OK**.

Hit **Install**.

Here, find your External Storage device on the path menu.

Select the **OptiSigns APK** file. You should see the below screen. Hit
**Install.**

If everything goes well, you should see this screen:

Now all that's left is [pairing your screen to your
account](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016374813-Set-up-
add-a-screen).

* * *

## Installing APK via Web Browser

These steps should be followed if you have **access to a Web Browser, but not
the Google Play store** on your Android device.

### Download OptiSigns APK and Install It

To begin, open your web browser (Chrome will be used in this example).

Type in the following URL: <https://www.optisigns.com/download>

Then, click **Go.**

Click **The APK** button in the Android Operation System on [our site.
](https://www.optisigns.com/download)

Click **Download** to download the OptiSigns APK file

Click on the **Options** button (three-period button) in Chrome.

Click **Downloads**

Click the **OptiSigns APK** file, then hit **Install.**

Click the **Done** button.

###

### That’s it!

Either route you've taken, you'll need to [pair your screen to your
account](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016374813-Set-up-
add-a-screen). Once paired, you'll have full access to OptiSigns digital
signage!

* * *

If you have any additional questions, concerns or any feedback about
OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

