Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/32272215514131-optisigns-pro-digital-signage-player

# OptiSigns Pro Digital Signage Player

  * What is the OptiSigns Pro Digital Signage Player?
    * Why you should consider using the OptiSigns Pro Player over the Android Player
    * Key Features of the OptiSigns Pro Digital Signage Player
    * How to Order the Pro Digital Signage Player
  * Hardware Specifications
  * What's in the Box?
  * How to Set Up the OptiSigns Pro Digital Signage Player
  * Checking the Device's Detailed Information

## What is the OptiSigns Pro Digital Signage Player?

The OptiSigns Pro Player is a dedicated single-purpose device designed to
optimize your digital signage experience. Engineered for seamless integration
with the OptiSigns platform, the Pro Player offers robust features like auto-
launch functionality, prevention of screen savers, and large local storage
capacity.

This device is preconfigured for easy setup, allowing you to manage content
remotely with full 4K video support and a reliable Ethernet connection. Ideal
for professional environments, the Pro Player supports mass pre-configuration
for large deployments and remote troubleshooting.

### Why you should consider using the OptiSigns Pro Player over the Android
Player:

  * **Professional-Grade Reliability:** Built for reliable 24/7 playback.
  * **Secured Single-Purpose Device:** Comes with regular security updates.
  * **Superior Performance:** Ideal for multi-zone and 4K content playback.

###

### Key Features of the OptiSigns Pro Digital Signage Player:

  * **Compact Design** : Slim design, easy to fit behind the TV.
  * **Industrial reliability:** built and suitable for mission critical use. 
  * **Support of HDMI CEC and RS232** : Take control of Commercial or consumer.
  * **4K Video Support** : Delivers ultra-high-definition content.
  * **Ample Storage** : Industrial grade reliable SSD
  * **Ethernet Port and Wi-Fi 6** : Ensures stable and fast, wired or Wireless internet connectivity.
  * **Enhanced Durability** : Ideal for 24/7 operation and multi-zone content playback.
  * **Versatile Connectivity:** Equipped with a wide range of connections to support various types of equipment, making it adaptable to different setups.

### How to Order the OptiSigns Pro Digital Signage Player:

  * Buy directly from the OptiSigns [Website ](https://shop.optisigns.com/products/optisigns-digital-signage-player)  

    * Shipping time - 3-5 days to most locations in the US

## Hardware Specifications

  * **3x HDMI 2.0b Ports**
  * **3x USB 3.0 + 1x USB 2.0**
  * **1 Gigabit Ethernet**
  * **MicroSD card slot**
  * **4GB RAM**
  * **128GB Industrical SSD**
  * **WiFi 6 Enabled**
  * **5.2BLE Bluetooth**
  * **12v-3A Power**
  * **2.5*5.5mm Power Port**
  * **Linux OS**
  * **Passive Cooling**
  * **20W Max Power Consumption**
  * **FCC, CE, RoHS Certification**
  * **12 Month Warranty**
  * **3.5mm Audio Port**
  * **3.5mm RS232 Serial Port**

## What’s in the Box?

When you purchase an OptiSigns Pro Player, you’ll receive:

  * **1x OptiSigns Pro Digital Signage Player**
  * **1x HDMI Cable**
  * **2x WiFi Antennas**
  * **1x Pro Player Mounting Bracket**
  * **1x DC Power Supply**
  * **Regional Power Adapters (Type A, Type C, Type G, Type I)**

* * *

## How to Set Up the OptiSigns Pro Digital Signage Player

  1. Connecting Device to your TV
  2. Configuring Wi-Fi Settings
     * Optional: Connecting to a Non-Broadcast SSID
  3. Setting Up Security Protocol
  4. Checking the Device's Detailed Information

### Connecting Device to Your TV

  1. **Connect the power adapter** to the DC-In port on the Pro Player and **plug the adapter** into a power outlet.
  2. **Plug the TV HDMI cable** to the **center HDMI port** on the Pro Player.
  3. _**Optional:**_ Secure the device to the back of TV using a T-mount.

Now, we will cover how to set up and connect your OptiSigns Pro Player to Wi-
Fi, ensuring that your device has a stable internet connection right from the
start.

Note: If you are connecting through LAN, you can skip this guide and follow
this [guide to set up your screen](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360016374813).  
---  
  
###

* * *

### Configuring Wi-Fi Settings

Upon first boot (_make sure there is no LAN connected_), the OptiSigns Pro
Player will prompt you to configure your Wi-Fi settings, as shown in the image
below:

Here’s what each field means and what you need to do:

  * **WIFI SSID** : Select the name of the Wi-Fi network you want to connect to from the dropdown list.
  * **WIFI Password** : Enter the password for the selected Wi-Fi network. You can click on the eye icon to show or hide the password as you type.
  * **WIFI Security** : This dropdown lets you choose the type of security protocol your Wi-Fi network uses. By default, this is set to WPA2-PSK, which is the most common and secure option.

Once you have entered all the required information, click on the "**CONNECT**
" button to link your OptiSigns Pro Player to the Wi-Fi network.

### Optional: Connecting to a Non-Broadcast SSID

If your Wi-Fi network does not broadcast its SSID (network name), you will
need to manually enter the network information to connect your OptiSigns Pro
Player. When you reach the Wi-Fi setup screen, follow these additional steps:

  1. **Access the Wi-Fi SSID Dropdown** : Click on the dropdown menu labeled "WIFI SSID" to see the list of available networks. As shown in the image below, there is an option at the top labeled "Hidden Wifi...". Select this option if your network is not visible in the list.

  2. **Enter Your Hidden SSID** : After selecting "Hidden Wifi...", you will be prompted to manually enter the name (SSID) of your Wi-Fi network. Ensure that the SSID is typed correctly, as this is case-sensitive.

### Setting Up Security Protocol

You’ll need to select the appropriate Wi-Fi security protocol that matches
your network configuration. The security protocol determines how your Wi-Fi
network is protected and how devices communicate securely. The image below
shows the available options:

Here’s a brief overview of each option:

  * **NONE** :

    * **Description** : This option indicates that the Wi-Fi network has no security, meaning no password is required to connect.
    * **Usage** : This is uncommon for most networks as it leaves your network vulnerable to unauthorized access. It's generally recommended to avoid using unsecured networks for your digital signage.
  * **WPA2-PSK** :

    * **Description** : WPA2-PSK (Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 - Pre-Shared Key) is the most widely used security protocol for Wi-Fi networks. It provides strong encryption and requires a password to connect.
    * **Usage** : This is the default and most recommended option for both home and business networks due to its balance of security and compatibility.
  * **WPA2-Enterprise** :

    * **Description** : WPA2-Enterprise is a more advanced security protocol often used in corporate environments. It requires a RADIUS server for authentication, offering individual credentials for users rather than a single shared password.
    * **Usage** : If your network is managed by an IT department with a RADIUS server, this is the option you’ll need to choose.
  * **WPA3-Personal** :

    * **Description** : WPA3-Personal is the latest Wi-Fi security protocol, offering enhanced protection against brute-force attacks and stronger encryption than WPA2. It also simplifies the process of connecting devices without a display, like IoT devices.
    * **Usage** : Use this option if your network supports WPA3, providing the highest level of security for your digital signage setup.

Note: Make sure to select the security protocol that corresponds with your
network settings. If you're unsure which one to choose, consult your network
administrator or refer to your router’s settings.  
---  
  
After selecting the appropriate Wi-Fi security protocol, proceed by entering
your network’s password and click on the "**CONNECT** " button to complete the
Wi-Fi setup.

* * *

## Checking the Device's Detailed Information

Once connected, the device will display a pairing code on the screen, as shown
below. This screen confirms that your device is now connected to the internet
and is ready to be paired with your OptiSigns account. Follow [this
guide](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016374813) for
assistance on pairing your screen.

After successfully pairing your OptiSigns Pro Player, you may want to check
more detailed information about your network connection. This can be
especially useful if you're troubleshooting connectivity issues or just want
to confirm the network settings.

To access the network details, follow these steps:

  1. **Open the Settings Menu** : On your OptiSigns Pro Player, navigate to the top-right corner of the screen and click on the menu icon.

  2. **Go to the About Screen** : From the dropdown menu that appears, scroll down and select the "**About** " option. This will take you to a screen that displays various details about your OptiSigns Pro Player, including network information.

In the "About" section, you'll be presented with detailed information about
your device's network connection. This screen is a valuable resource for
understanding and managing your connection, especially if you need to
troubleshoot any issues. Below is what you can expect to see:

Here’s a breakdown of the key information displayed:

  * **WLAN MAC Address** : This is the unique MAC (Media Access Control) address for your device's Wi-Fi connection. The MAC address can be useful for network administrators who may need to whitelist your device on certain networks.

  * **ETH1 MAC Address** : If your device is also connected via Ethernet, this section will show the MAC address for that connection. This is important if you have a wired connection in addition to Wi-Fi.

  * **Network IPs** : Here, you will see the IP addresses assigned to your device. For Wi-Fi, the WLAN IP is shown along with the SSID (network name) your device is connected to. Knowing the IP address can help with advanced troubleshooting and network management.

  * **Server and Internet Connection Status** : The screen will also indicate whether your device is connected to the OptiSigns server and the internet, displayed in green text as "Server Connected: true" and "Internet Connected: true." This is a quick way to confirm that your device is online and able to receive updates and content.

In addition to network details, the "About" screen provides other useful
information such as CPU and RAM usage, storage details, and the local time set
on the device. These details can help you monitor the performance of your
OptiSigns Pro Player.

If you ever need to reboot your device, view logs, or revisit the Wi-Fi setup,
you can do so directly from this screen by clicking on the corresponding
options at the bottom.

* * *

## That’s it!

You’re all set up and ready to go. Now, dive into the countless possibilities
to enhance your digital displays with OptiSigns' powerful apps and
integrations.

