Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034379693-raspberry-pi

# Raspberry Pi

### In this article, we'll break down how to get OptiSigns running on a
Rapsberry Pi device.

  * Two Methods to Get OptiSigns Running on a Raspberry Pi
  * Method 1: Download & Use Prebuilt SD Card Image
  * Method 2: Install OptiSigns on Existing Raspberry Pi OS by Downloading and Running an AppImage File
  * Summary

OptiSigns is compatible with and works well on Raspberry Pi. We recommend
Raspberry Pi 3B+ and above. Which type of Raspberry Pi you have will determine
what type of software you'll want to download.

**Download**  
---  
Download our prebuilt SD Card image for [Raspberry Pi 4 or
older](https://links.optisigns.com/rpi-image) or [Raspberry Pi
5.](https://links.optisigns.com/rpi5-image)  
  
## **Two Methods to Get OptiSigns Running on a Raspberry Pi  
**

1) Download our prebuilt SD Card image for [Raspberry Pi
4](https://links.optisigns.com/rpi-image) or [Raspberry Pi
5](https://links.optisigns.com/rpi5-image) and flash to your SD Card.

2) Install OptiSigns on your existing Raspberry Pi OS by downloading and
running [AppImage file](https://links.optisigns.com/rpi)

Here's a step-by-step guide for each method.

* * *

## **Method 1: Download & Use Prebuilt SD Card Image**

Download the latest SD Card image for [Raspberry Pi
4](https://links.optisigns.com/rpi-image)
([MD5](https://download.optisignsapp.com/RPi/player-2435240-rpi4.zip.md5)) or
[Raspberry Pi 5](https://links.optisigns.com/rpi5-image)
([MD5](https://download.optisignsapp.com/RPi/player-2435240-rpi5.zip.md5))
here.

Unzip and Flash the SD Card image to your SD Card (minimum 16GB card is
required).

Note: If using [Raspberry Pi Imager](https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/)
instead of Etcher below, WIFI settings can be configured.

**Download and Install Etcher.**

Please click **[here to download Etcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/).**

Open **Etcher software** and select the **OptiSigns .img file** that you just
unzipped.

Select the **SD card drive.**

****

Click **"Flash".**

****

After flashing the SD card and booting up, **connect to your network.**

OptiSigns is preinstalled and will auto-start on start-up.

Next you can skip to **step 2) iv)** to pair the screens and start assigning
content.

* * *

## **Method 2: Install OptiSigns on Your Existing Raspberry Pi OS by
Downloading and Running[AppImage file](https://links.optisigns.com/rpi)**

**Here are the high-level steps:**

i) Get a fresh image of [Raspberry Pi OS
](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspberry-pi-os/)boot it up and
configure your network _. If you already have Raspberry Pi OS running, you can
skip this._

ii) Download FUSE using your Raspberry Pi's Terminal.

iii) [_Download OptiSigns_](https://links.optisigns.com/rpi) to your Raspberry
Pi OS, and run it.

iv) Pair your screen with [_OptiSign porta_ l.](https://app.optisigns.com/)

v) Using OptiSigns's web portal to assign content and manage your screens.

### **Step 1: Get a fresh image of Raspberry Pi OS and configure the network**

If you already have Raspberry Pi OS running, skip this step.  
Download a fresh image of Raspberry Pi OS. We recommend:

  * [Raspberry Pi 64-bit for Raspberry Pi 5 with desktop and recommended software](https://downloads.raspberrypi.com/raspios_full_arm64/images/raspios_full_arm64-2024-07-04/2024-07-04-raspios-bookworm-arm64-full.img.xz)
  * [Raspberry Pi 32-bit for Raspberry Pi 4 or below with desktop and recommended software](https://downloads.raspberrypi.com/raspios_full_armhf/images/raspios_full_armhf-2024-07-04/2024-07-04-raspios-bookworm-armhf-full.img.xz)

**IMPORTANT:**  
---  
For Raspberry Pi 5, we recommend a 64-bit OS for best performance. For
Raspberry Pi 4 or below, we recommend 32-bit. However, 64-bit systems will
work in any case.  
  
Next, use a tool like [Etcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/) to flash the
image to your SD Card.

****

After flashing the SD card and booting up, you can connect to your network by
exiting OptiSigns, mousing up to the top of the Desktop, then clicking the
**Network** button.

### **Step 2: Run/update FUSE  
**

Raspberry Pi AppImages require FUSE to run. If your existing Raspberry Pi
already has the latest version of FUSE, you can skip this step.

**NOTE:** You'll need a functioning network connection for this.  
---  
  
First, open the **Terminal** menu on your Raspberry Pi.

You'll see this screen:

Now input the following command:

    
    
    sudo apt install -y fuse  
    

As long as you have a valid internet connection, this will install the latest
version of FUSE.

### **Step 3: Download OptiSigns AppImage to your Raspberry Pi OS an run it**

Download OptiSigns AppImage file for [Raspberry Pi 5
here](https://links.optisigns.com/arm64), and [Raspberry 4 or below
here](https://optisigns.page.link/rpi).

If you are unfamiliar with AppImage, it is a way for a Linux package app to
run just like you would run a .app file on Mac or a .exe file on Windows.

Once Downloaded, open **File Explorer** , right-click on the downloaded file
and select **Properties**.

In the Properties box. Click the Permissions tab in the **Access Control**
**â†’** **Execute** drop-down. Select **Anyone** on all three options. Then
Click OK.

After that, double-click on the AppImage file to execute it. In the pop-up,
select **Execute**.

  
Raspberry Pi is not very fast, so it may take a few seconds to load. The app
will run in full-screen mode, and generate a pairing code for you to pair with
the [_app.optisigns.com_](http://app.optisigns.com/) portal. You can also move
the mouse around, and you will see the top 3 buttons to resize, open side bar
menu, or close the app.

On the side menu, you can set Orientation, etc. The app has Autostart and
Fullscreen on Startup checked as default. So now, the next time the Raspberry
Pi starts up, it will run OptiSigns app automatically.  
  

### **Step 4: Pair your screen with the OptiSigns portal.**

You can now go to our portal at: <https://app.optisigns.com/> to pair the
screen.

If you don't have an account already, create one, or you can also log in with
Google or Facebook account.

Once you log in Click the "Add screen" button

In this pop-up, type in the Pair Code on your player's screen. Then click Pair

The screen will change to:

### Step 5: Use Optisigns Web portal to assign content and manage your
screens.

Once you go to our portal at: [https://app.optisigns.com/
](https://app.optisigns.com/)to pair the screen and start assigning content to
it, you can follow these guides for more detailed steps:

  * [Set up & add a screen](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016374813)
  * [How to Upload & Manage Your Files/ Assets](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016247974)
  * [How to Create & Use Playlists](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/28295104605843)
  * [Create and Using Schedules with OptiSigns](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016981853)

* * *

## **Summary**

Now your Raspberry Pi image already has Digital Signage player features
configured:

  * Autostart up and launch OptiSigns.

  * It will resume, and play what's assigned to it, even after hard power is lost.

  * It will not go to sleep.

  * It can play downloadable content (images, video, documents) even when internet connection is lost.

If you have any questions or issues that need support, please feel free to
reach out to us at [support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com).

