Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500000485202-custom-branding-settings

# Custom Branding Settings

### In this article, we'll explain everything you need to know about Custom
Branding in OptiSigns.

  * Branding Section
  * Login Page Section
  * Account Management Page Section

It's possible to customize the OptiSigns Portal experience to match your
brand. It's also possible to hide OptiSigns branding apps and features.

The Branding feature is available to OptiSigns **Pro Plus** plan subscribers
or higher.

To use it, navigate to the [**Branding
Page**](https://app.optisigns.com/app/s/branding-settings) in your Account
Settings:

Inside, you'll find three sections: Branding, Login Page, and Account
Management. Below, we'll go over each setting within the three sections and
explain what they do.

* * *

## Branding Section

The Branding section primarily deals with how your custom portal will appear
and be shared with others.

**Site Title:**

This is the title of the site on Browser tabs.

**Sub-domain:**

This is for a customized login page, you can make your sub-domain login (i.e.
abcmedia.optisigns.net)

This is also required if you want to map your domain/sub-domain.

More on domain/sub-domain mapping [here](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/1500000480302).

**Your domain:**

You can map your sub-domain, i.e. login.abcmedia.com so that your users can
log in and use the portal from login.abcmedia.com and use the app like the
screenshot below.

More on domain/sub-domain mapping [here](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-
us/articles/1500000480302).

**Upload your Favicon:**

This is the favicon on browser tabs.

**Upload Logo:**

This is the logo on the top left after user login.

* * *

## Login Page Section

The Login Page section deals with settings for your login page - where your
users will initially engage with the platform.

**Upload new Logo**

This is the logo on your login page.

You can see an example here: <https://abcmedia.optisigns.net/signIn>

**Upload New Background**

This is the background image for your login page

**Remove OptiSigns Branding**

Check this option to remove all OptiSigns branding from the Login Page and all
other parts of the portal.

**Hide Account Button**

Check this option to remove the "Account" button from the Login Page.

**Hide Google Login**

Check this option to remove the option to login through Google from the Login
Page.

**Hide FB Login**

Check this option to remove the option to login through Facebook from the
Login Page.

**Hide MS Login**

Check this option to remove the option to login through Microsoft from the
Login Page.

**Login Box**

You can move the login box location and customize it further.

* * *

## Account Management Page

**Hide Payment History Page**

Check this to hide the Payment History page from your Branded Portal.

**Hide Subscription Page**

Check this to hide the Subscription page from your Branded Portal.

**Hide Account Members Page**

Check this to hide the Account Members page from your Branded Portal.

**Hide Proof of Play Page**

Check this to hide the Proof of Play page from your Branded Portal.

**Hide Audit Logging Page**

Check this to hide the Audit Logging page from your Branded Portal.

**Hide Monitor & Alert Page**

Check this to hide the Monitor & Alert page from your Branded Portal.

**Enable Templates & Designer**

Check to allow use of OptiSigns Template and OptiSigns Designer in your
Branded Portal.

**Hide External Communications (RS232) Page**

Check this to hide the External Communications (RS232) page from your Branded
Portal.

**Color Theme**

Allows you to customize the color of the portal. Just hit the Color Theme
button to provide a gradient, or provide a custom hex color:

**Show/Hide Apps**

Customize the Apps that can appear in your branded portal. Selected apps will
appear - to hide apps, make sure they are unselected.

**Show/Hide Apps For Share Links**

Customize the Apps that appear when Share Links are sent. Works the same as
normal Show/Hide apps, but allows further restriction if desired.

**Templates Categories**

Customize the template categories which will appear in your portal here:

**Send emails from:**

For Proof of play report, you can schedule report emails to be sent directly
to your users.

With this setting you can set the reports to be sent from your email address
(not OptiSigns email address).  
  
You can set a Custom email address for users to receive these emails.

**NOTE**  
---  
This only applies to Proof of Play reports. Password reset emails are still
sent from OptiSigns email addresses. If you do not want users to receive
emails from OptiSigns, do not put these user's emails in OptiSigns  
  
### That's all!

If you have any questions, please contact us at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

