Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/7592123111699-host-your-html-js-or-create-your-own-web-app-with-hosted-website

# Host your HTML/JS or Create your own Web App with Hosted Website

For advanced & enterprise users who know how to create their own HTML/JS app,
you can use OptiSigns Hosted Website app to deploy & host your web app

This eliminates the need to find your web hosting services, combines the
management of all your Digital Signage apps in the OptiSigns platform, and
makes simple edits, updates & redeploys quickly in OptiSigns.

By default you can create 1 Hosted Website app, if you need more please
contact us at [support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com) for
Enterprise pricing.

**When to use the Hosted Website app?**

If you have simple web apps like ones to handle Kiosk interactivities, your
restaurant dynamic menus, your team status dashboard, etc. to be used with
your Digital Signs.

For Enterprise Customers, you can use API to send/store data specific to each
device to be used in your web app. For example: pricing, and inventory data
for each screen.

It can also be used with OptiSigns Touchless app to create a unique in-place
experience for your customers, they can for a short period control content
displayed on your screens.

It does not mean to be a full-blown online web development, dev/ops platform
that handles full web application development, there are plenty of other
platforms/tools for that.

**With Hosted Website app you can:**

  * Upload a zip file of your HTML/JS, image files you already have and host it inside OptiSigns (no need for another service to host your web app)
  * Create your own HTML/JS app with an online editor
  * Make quick edits to your app easily inside OptiSigns

**How to use the Hosted Website app:**

The easiest way to use a Hosted Website is to upload a zip file with your
HTML/JS and even images in it.

Click Files/Assets -> Apps -> find Hosted Website

Click Upload Zip

**IMPORTANT: your Zip file must have /index.html** , that's the entry point to
be loaded by default.

Give your app a name, this is only to be used in Files/Assets to manage your
app.

Browse your Zip file and click Save.

If you have index.html, the preview will show up on the right.

The asset will be created in your library:

You can click the Preview button to open the hosted URL.

Here's an example:

<https://hosted-website.optisigns.com/62c703f3cf5c1b001536c8eb/>

**That's it!** you can use this Hosted Website app just like any assets on
your screens, playlist, kiosk, etc.

With Hosted Website app there's built in Editor & Templates that you can use
to build simple webapp or make quick updates to your sites.

To use this editor, you will need to either Import your project Zip file (not
the minified, compiled version), create it from scratch, or with one of our
templates.

If you need API to push data to device level and use your web app to consume
this data, or if you further questions on how to use a Hosted Website please
contact us at [support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

