Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500005888781-how-to-best-use-canva-with-optisigns

# How to Best Use Canva with OptiSigns

### Turn your ideas into striking designs effortlessly with Canva, a versatile
graphic design tool. Follow this guide learn how to bring your screens to life
with Canva.

**Use Case**  
---  
A local café uses Canva to design and display its digital menu boards,
occasionally updating the graphic and having it automatically update on their
screens. This visual approach not only attracts more foot traffic with its
vibrant display but also helps in effectively communicating the café's brand
and seasonal offerings.  
  
**In this article:**

  1. [Canva in Digital Signage](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500005888781#Canva)
  2. [Option 1: Export and Upload Canva Images and Videos (Recommended)](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500005888781#Option)
  3. [Option 2: Use Embed from Canva (Live Updates)](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500005888781#Use)
  4. [Auto-Advancing Live Embed Canva Slides with OptiSigns' Playlist](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500005888781#Auto-Advancing)
  5. [Common Issues](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500005888781#Common)

## Canva in Digital Signage

Canva is an easy-to-use online graphic design tool offering a vast library of
16:9 templates perfect for digital signage, including presentations, posters,
and videos. Its features, such as animation and video making, enable the
creation of dynamic, engaging content that captures attention.

Canva's extensive customization options allow users to tailor designs to their
specific needs, while its collaboration tools facilitate teamwork, making it
ideal for producing professional-quality digital signage efficiently.

Additionally, Canva's accessibility and user-friendly interface make it a
valuable resource for users of all skill levels, ensuring that anyone can
create impressive digital signage with ease. Whether for businesses,
educational institutions, or personal projects, Canva's versatile platform
supports a wide range of digital signage applications.

##  Option 1: Export and Upload Canva Images and Videos (Recommended)

This is the **most popular and versatile** method where you can export any
design and video that is supported. Exporting and uploading files ensure
compatibility across various platforms and devices, avoiding potential issues
with code integration and ensuring your designs maintain their intended
appearance.

First, make sure your Canva designs are finalized and prepared for upload.

**1.** Select the '**Share** ' option → Click the '**Download** ' button.

A list of various file format options will appear in a drop-down menu.

Typically, you will choose either PNG (Image) for static designs or MP4
(Video) if your design includes animations.  
---  
  
After downloading your chosen file type, you can upload it to OptiSigns.

**2.** Go to your **[Files/Assets
Page.](https://app.optisigns.com/app/assetManagement)**

**3.** Click **Apps** → Search for **Canva.**

**4\. Drag and drop** or **Upload** your file into **Option 1 →** Click
**Upload File.**

Now, you've successfully uploaded your Canva image to OptiSigns!

## Option 2: Use Embed from Canva (Live Updates)

Using **live embeds** for Canva designs is beneficial if you're looking for
real-time updates, ensuring your digital signage always displays the most
current information without needing to re-upload files.

This method also simplifies collaboration, as multiple team members can edit
the design simultaneously, and changes are instantly reflected on the signage.

To use the Canva Embedded link, start by navigating to your selected design on
Canva.

Note: An Internet connection is required to play.  
---  
  
**1.** Click the '**Share** ' option → Select '**More** ' at the bottom of the
scroll page.

**2.** Choose the '**Embed** ' option → Copy the **HTML embed code →** Paste
this link into the OptiSigns portal.

**3.** In the OptiSigns portal, select the **Canva app**.

**4.** Name your app to easily find it in your asset library later.

**5.** Paste the **HTML****embed code** inside the **Embed Code** text box to
enable automatic updates.

**6.** Click **Save,** then your asset will be successfully added to your
asset library!

Now, your Canva design will automatically update and is ready to push to your
screens!

**Why use Embedded Links From Canva?**  
---  
Using embedded links from Canva for automatic updates streamlines content
management by instantly reflecting any changes made in Canva on your displays.
This process eliminates the need for manual updates, enhancing efficiency and
reducing error potential. It also ensures consistency across multiple
displays, maintaining uniformity in branding and information sharing.  
  
##  Auto-Advancing Live Embed Canva Slides with OptiSigns' Playlist

When incorporating a Live Embed from Canva into OptiSigns, Canva does not
automatically advance to the next page or slide. We provide a simple solution
for this issue.

**1\. Add the page number to the end of the URL** to manually navigate through
the pages.

**Canva Asset #1**

**Canva Asset #2**

**2.** Add the **Canva assets** to a **Playlist**.

**3.** Adjust the timing and sequence of these pages within the Playlist,
making sure you place your assets in the correct order.

This setup guarantees that any changes made in Canva will automatically update
and advance in the live display through OptiSigns' Playlist functionality.
This eliminates the need to manually replace entire slides, streamlining the
content management process.

## Common Issues

Canva is an excellent resource for graphics, marketing, and designs. While
using it, users should be aware of certain specific features:

  * While Canva is great for general design, our Kiosk Designer tool is specifically optimized for digital signage, ensuring perfect resolution, local content caching, and seamless navigation. This specialization makes our tool the superior choice for reliable and high-quality digital signage displays.

  * If you, as a user, lack the necessary access rights to a design, you may encounter an error message stating, "**You don't have permission to see this design**." Please verify that you are logged into the correct account or request access from the design's creator, and ensure the account is set to public.

## That's it!

Click [here](https://designschool.canva.com/tutorials/) to learn more about
Canva's capabilities and how to utilize its full potential!

