Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/4414355658899-how-to-use-microsoft-powerpoint-with-optisigns

# How to Use Microsoft PowerPoint with OptiSigns

### Microsoft PowerPoint is an incredibly popular way to create and share your
presentation. With OptiSigns, you can bring these presentations to your
digital screens in a variety of ways.

* * *

**In this article:**

  * How to Use Your PowerPoint With OptiSigns
    * Option 1: Upload a PowerPoint File **(Easiest & Recommended)**
    * Option 2: Sign in with Your Microsoft Account**(PPT changes auto sync to your screens)**
    * Option 3: Embed Your PowerPoint
  * Best Practices for Using PowerPoint With OptiSigns
  * FAQs

* * *

## Option 1: Upload a PowerPoint File

_**We highly recommend this method!**_

Depending on how you download your PowerPoint, this option can be useful if
you want your videos, animations or transitions to work. You can either
download your PowerPoint as:

  * **A Video/MP4:** This **will play** any videos, transitions, or animations your PowerPoint may have.
  * **A PPT File:** Videos, transitions, and animations will not play, but you can adjust the duration of slides.

**That said, let's get started!**

  1. Download your PowerPoint to your device.
  2. Log in to the **OptiSigns** portal
  3. Navigate to the **Files/Assets** page
  4. Click [**Upload Files**](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016247974)
  5. **Drag** in or **select** your PowerPoint file from your device
  6. Click **Upload  
  
**

  7. Either: **Assign** to a screen on the Screens Management page or **push** the asset to your screen. 
     * If downloaded as a **PDF** or **PPT,** select the **Duration (seconds)** of the entire document. _(Min. 4/page)_  

### Limitations

  * Videos, transitions, and animations will not play if downloaded as a PDF or PPT file. It will just be a slideshow. 

* * *

## Option 2: Sign in with Your Microsoft Account

This option allows you to access private PowerPoint files directly from your
Microsoft account. With this option, your PowerPoint will update in our portal
with any changes you make to it.

####  **Note:** The first time logging in will require using an account with
administrator privilege on your Microsoft account.

_The administrator will need to approve OptiSigns App in your Microsoft
account. This is only needed one time and for the first time. Once OptiSigns
App is approved by the administrator in your account, any users in your
organization can log in using their own account and use it._  
---  
  
  1. **Log in** to the OptiSigns portal.
  2. Go to **Files/Assets** , then **Apps,** and search for the **PowerPoint Online** app.  

  3. Click “**Log In With Microsoft** ” in the OptiSigns app.
  4. **Select the PowerPoint file** you wish to display.  

  5. **Name your asset** for easy identification (this name will not be shown on the screen).
  6. **Adjust the speed** of slide transitions.  

     * **Slow/5:** 19 seconds
     * **Medium/10:** 14 seconds
     * **Fast/15****:** 9 seconds
  7. Optionally, **customize the Update Interval** (default: 12 hours).
  8. Click **Save** to finalize your settings.
  9. Push to screens

### Limitations

  * Does not have animation or transitions, making it a regular slideshow
  * Videos will not play and will only show the thumbnail

* * *

## Option 3: Embed Your PowerPoint

_We do not currently recommend this option unless you are displaying one
page._

  1. **Upload your PowerPoint file** to Microsoft OneDrive and **open it**.
  2. Navigate to the **File** tab, select **Share** , and then click **Embed**.  

  3. **Copy** the HTML embed code.  

  4. Next,**Share** your presentation publicly by clicking the **Share** button in PowerPoint Online.
  5. Select **Copy Link**
     * Make sure that the link is accessible to anyone!  

  6. **Replace** the URL in the generated embed code with the **public** **URL** of your PowerPoint that you just copied**,** as shown below. This ensures that the presentation is accessible without requiring a login.  
  
<iframe src="https://**Y****our-Public-URL**
&amp;action=embedview&amp;wdAr=1.7777777777777777&amp;wdEaa=1" width="476px"
height="288px" frameborder="0">This is an embedded <a target="_blank"
href="https://office.com">Microsoft Office</a> presentation, powered by <a
target="_blank" href="https://office.com/webapps">Office</a>.</iframe>  
  

  7. **Log in** to the OptiSigns portal.
  8. Go to **Files/Assets** , then **Apps,** and search for the **PowerPoint Online** app.  

  9. Paste the **modified embed code.  
**

  10. Optionally, **customize the Update** **Interval** (default: 600 seconds).
  11. Click **Save.**
  12. [**Push to Screens**](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/18988049363859)

### Limitations

  * Auto-advancing does not work.
  * Needs a stable internet connection to display.
  * Only works when the PowerPoint URL is accessible to anyone.
  * Powerpoint UI will appear instead of being in seamless presentation mode.

* * *

## Best Practices for Using PowerPoint with OptiSigns

  * **File Size:** Keep your PowerPoint file under **25MB** for optimal performance. Complete app size **cannot exceed 105MB**.
  * **Avoid Embedded Videos:** Videos can increase file size and cause performance issues. Instead, consider exporting your presentation as a video if animations or video playback is essential.
  * **Use Simple Transitions:** Complex animations and transitions may not render properly. Stick to basic transitions or upload a video version of your presentation if needed.

* * *

## FAQs

### Why does using PowerPoint require giving OptiSigns Admin permission to
use?

OptiSigns uses Microsoft APIs for integration. In order for our integrations
to work, the integration has to be approved by an administrator. This is the
same across all integrations using Microsoft APIs.

This administrator access is only needed for first time access. Once the
OptiSigns app is approved for use, other users can use OptiSigns directly.

### I want to log in to PowerPoint directly through my Microsoft account, but
I don't see the option! What's going on?

If you're setting up the app and it looks like the image below, you're likely
logged on through a **Branded Portal.**

To use Microsoft single sign-on, sign in through
[app.optisigns.com](http://app.optisigns.com) rather than your Branded Portal.

## That's it!

You've now successfully uploaded your PowerPoint file to OptiSigns!

