Article URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/6604468198291-how-to-use-the-cap-alert-app

# How to Use the CAP Alert App

### In this article, we will show you how to set up and test the CAP Alert app
in OptiSigns.

  * How to Set Up a CAP Alert App
  * How to Test Your CAP Alert

**NOTE**  
---  
The CAP Alert app is available to **Pro Plus** subscribers and above.  
  
Some Emergency Alert Systems or Emergency Mass Notification Systems (like
Everbridge, and Alertus) can push CAP (Common Alerting Protocol) messages to
the targets including digital signage when there is an emergency. You can
integrate with these systems using the CAP Alert app with OptiSigns.

Using OptiSigns' CAP Alert app, you can generate a webhook and integrate it
with the Emergency Alert System. When there is an emergency, the emergency
alert system will call the webhook to send the CAP message and trigger the CAP
alert app. The CAP alert will take over the target screens and display the
emergency message. The screen will resume and play the original content when
the emergency is over.

* * *

## How to Set Up a CAP Alert App**  
**

First, you will need to have your screens set up and paired. For more
information on how to do that, see our article on [How to Set Up Digital Signs
with OptiSigns](https://www.optisigns.com/blog/how-to-set-up-digital-signs-
with-optisigns-and-amazon-fire-tv).

Then log on to our portal: <http://app.optisigns.com/>

Go to **Files/Assets** , Click on "App"

Select "CAP Alert" app:

Set up your CAP alert app:

  * **_Name_** \- Name of your assets, this will not be displayed on the screens.
  * **_Target_** \- Select Screens or Tags.
  * **_Screens/Tags_** \- Select which screens or group of screens (tags) you want to target for this emergency. (i.e. Fire in building/location 1)
  * **Content-Type** \- Select "Post to Webhook" if you would like to post the CAP message to your signage. The app also supports RSS feed.
  * **Webhook** \- The app will generate a webhook URL after it is saved. This is what you should share with the emergency alert system.
  * **Display Type **\- Currently the app will take over the full screen when there is an emergency
  * **_State_ **\- Set the app to active or inactive.
  * **_Emergency Duration_ **\- How long the emergency message will take over the screen. The value can be overwritten by the webhook call.

**Advanced settings:**

  * **Using Text Font, Color, Background Color, Text Alignment, and Background Image** \- Allows you to design the message as you desire (i.e. text shows up in the middle of the screen on top of your organization's branded image template)
  * **Item Duration** \- How long each individual item in the RSS feed will display.
  * **Title Tag** \- Message title from the CAP message/RSS feed, default is <headline> \- you can change if your feed is different
  * **Description Tag** \- Message content from the CAP message/RSS feed, default is <description> \- you can change if your feed is different
  * **Location (Screen Tags)** \- If you can match the screen tags with your location passed from the CAP message/RSS feed - you can use it to control the selection of the target screens. By default, it maps to the "areaDesc" attribute from the CAP alert. 

**IMPORTANT:** A common issue we find is the screen displays a "No Content
Available" message after users push out the CAP alert using "aeraDesc" an
attribute. The solution: if you are not intending to use screen tags to map to
location, try changing the Location value from "areaDesc" to any other value,
like "areaDesc2".  
---  
  
  * **Filter content containing** - Allows content to be filtered based on specific words in the title or description. I.E: "fire", so if any title or description contains the word "fire" (non-case insensitive), the app will trigger the screen takeover.
  * **Exclude title containing** - Filter only applying to the title. You can hide all the old feeds by filtering with specific words in the title. I.E: “All Clear”, so after the emergency is gone, all the feeds before this title will be hidden, then the screen will revert to the original content or just display the new content after that.
  * **Use Urgency, Severity, Certainty, and Status to control the filter of the CAP messages** , these are standard attributes of CAP messages. By default, the app will be triggered on all values. Once selected, they can be set similar to tags:

Selected choices will continue to appear.

When finished, click **Save**.

* * *

## How to Test Your CAP Alert

After Saving, the app will generate a Webhook URL automatically. When this
Webhook is called, it will perform the functions designated in your CAP Alert
app. If you share the Webhook URL with your Emergency Alert System, it will be
able to trigger this Webhook during an emergency and take over the screens.  
  

To test your CAP alert integration, we recommend using
[Postman](https://www.postman.com/) to post a CAP message to the Webhook.

First, download or log in to Postman. Once there, navigate to **Home → Send an
API request → New Request:**

****

Once here, change the request type to **POST:**

Input the Webhook URL for your CAP Alert next.

Now, navigate to the **Body** tab. Here, you can send data two ways: **URL
encoded** or as a **raw XML file**. Here we will assume you are sending your
data as raw XML, as this is the most common format we see from Emergency Alert
Services.

CAP Alerts are generally delivered via an external Emergency Alert System,
which are saved as **.xml** or **.txt** files. These are broadcast via the
[Common Alerting Protocol Version 1.2](https://docs.oasis-
open.org/emergency/cap/v1.2/CAP-v1.2-os.html). To push an XML file, click the
**raw → Dropdown →** select **XML**.

****

Then, copy and paste the following piece of test code into the field:

    
    
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?>  
    <alert xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:emergency:cap:1.2">  
        <identifier>ALERTUS_2317_67_20230131_162046</identifier>  
        <sender>Tester</sender>  
        <sent>2023-01-31T11:20:47-05:00</sent>  
        <status>Actual</status>  
        <msgType>Alert</msgType>  
        <source>Alertus eEAS Server</source>  
        <scope>Public</scope>  
        <addresses>ALL</addresses>  
        <code>IPAWSv1.0</code>  
        <info>  
            <language>en-US</language>  
            <category>Safety</category>  
            <event>TEST Event Name Override</event>  
            <responseType>None</responseType>  
            <urgency>Immediate</urgency>  
            <severity>Severe</severity>  
            <certainty>Observed</certainty>  
            <eventCode>  
                <valueName>SAME</valueName>  
                <value>LAE</value>  
            </eventCode>  
            <effective>2023-01-31T11:20:47-05:00</effective>  
            <onset>2023-01-31T11:20:47-05:00</onset>  
            <expires>2023-01-31T11:23:46-05:00</expires>  
            <headline>Test286</headline>  
            <description>This is a Test of the Alertus Emergency Notification System. NO ACTION is Needed. In a real emergency, this system will be used to provide emergency information and protective actions. Please return to your normal activities.</description>  
            <area>  
                <areaDesc1>Tag1</areaDesc1>  
                <geocode>  
                    <valueName>SAME</valueName>  
                    <value>000000</value>  
                </geocode>  
            </area>  
            <parameter>   
                <valueName>duration</valueName>   
                <value>30</value>   
            </parameter>   
        </info>  
    </alert>

It will look something like this:

You can set the duration of the CAP alert message as well. In raw XML format,
you can pass the duration value through a system parameter in your CAP alert
message.

Now, to test the request, hit **Send**. A piece of text should appear on the
console below. If the test was successful, it should give a **200 OK code**
and say "status": "success":

And this message (assuming all the defaults were kept in the CAP Alert app)
will appear on your screen:

#### Creating a Test Request in urlEncoded Format

Using urlEncoded format, the duration can be passed as URL parameter together
with data.

The rest of the test can be performed identically.

### That's all!

If you have any additional questions, concerns or any feedback about
OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our support team at
[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)

